The whole obligation and privilege of mankind is to develop a relationship with our God and maker, Jehovah.
But the question is how do we develop that relationship and then how do we keep it?
Well, let's start with how do we develop it.
If you open to Ecclesiastes 12 and verse 13, note that two components mentioned in this verse.
Ecclesiastes 12, 13.
It says, so the conclusion of the matter, everything having been heard is fear the true God and keep his commandments
for this is the whole obligation of man.
So the obligation begins with fearing the true God and then keep his commandments.
So what does it mean to fear? What kind of fear we're talking about?
The insight book says this, the fear of God is healthful.
It is an awe and a profound reverence for the creator and a wholesome dread of despising him.
The fear of incurring his displeasure is a result of appreciation of his loving kindness and goodness together with the realization that he is the supreme judge and the Almighty.
So how does one come to have this awe of God?
Well, as the text says today that we've already read, we first hear about his fame and about all he has done.
Now, it's of interest that just simply hearing and knowing what he does does not necessarily lead to awe or to the kind of awe that will help us develop a relationship with him.
The scriptures explain that if you go to Joshua, chapter 9, where we read about a group of Canaanite kings in Joshua, chapter 9.
And in verse 1, it says, when all the kings who were on the west side of the garden heard what had happened, well, what did they hear that had happened?
Well, of course, the stories of the Exodus of Israel out of Egypt was one thing they heard and the mighty Acts of Jehovah God in connection with his people.
And then when Israel first penetrated Canaan, after crossing the garden, they set up a camp at Gilgal, which was not far from the wall city of Jericho.
And these Canaanite kings had heard about what Jehovah did in Jericho, the great destruction there in behalf of his people.
And remember, Rahab was spared, and her family was spared because when she heard about the mighty Acts of Jehovah God, it moved her to put faith in him.
Now, if you just glance through Joshua chapter 8, we find that following that great destruction, then they went to AI, the city of AI, and Jehovah God had instructed how to ambush that city, which led to the destruction there.
So, after hearing those Acts of Jehovah and many other Acts of Jehovah, what did it do to the Canaanite kings? Were they moved with awe? Well, let's read chapter 9 verse 2.
It says, they formed an alliance to fight against Joshua and Israel. So, it had the opposite effect upon them, didn't it?
But now, notice the different reaction it had upon the Ghiblianites. Now, they heard the very same reports in chapter 9 and verse 9.
It says, at this, they said to him, your servants have come from a very distant land out of regard for the name of Jehovah your God, because we have heard about his fame, and about all he did in Egypt,
and about all he did to the two kings of the Amorites.
So, in this case, they heard it led to their awe, which led to their developing a relationship with Jehovah God. Well, today, the same thing is true.
The mighty Acts of Jehovah God are all around us, and those that are rightly disposed recognize them and are moved to this awe that leads to a good relationship with Jehovah God.
We have a number of experiences in that regard that's related to the relief efforts going on right now. I'd like to share one of them with you.
There's in the middle of the night, Monday, October 9, 2017, and the wildfires began to engulf areas around the city of Santa Rosa, California.
The elders began to call, text, and even personally alert to those in the congregation, they needed to evacuate immediately, and in time hundreds of friends made their way to the Kingdom Hall,
and from their arrangements were made for these displaced publishers to be housed in with their brothers and sisters in unaffected areas, especially to the south.
Well, there was one Spanish family that hesitated to accept the hospitality that was being extended to them, and did not want to be relocated.
And upon the loving inquiries of the elders, it was learned that the father was a non-witness, and he felt uncomfortable staying in another witness home and was embarrassed at the way he looked, the way he was dressed and how dirty he was because of the circumstances.
So he requested to stay overnight at the Kingdom Hall with his family.
Well, the temporary beds were set up at the Kingdom Hall, and during the night, the circuit of his year had children singing Kingdom songs on the platform, which really encouraged all.
The next morning, after experiencing the loving atmosphere in the Kingdom Hall, and seeing how well Jehovah took care of this man's family, as well as the other publishers,
the man stated that he was going to call the brother back, who studied with him many years ago, and would resume his Bible study, and he would never, ever miss a meeting again.
Yes, those rightly disposed, become an awe of Jehovah God, and that moves them to a good relationship with him.
Remember, the whole obligation of man is to fear God.
So the question is now that we have developed this relationship with Jehovah God, how do we keep it?
Well, for sure, we must continue to be observant of Jehovah's mighty acts in connection, not only with ourselves, but in connection with his people worldwide.
Never should we allow the wonderful experiences that we hear, the outstanding world service report, or the support and comfort that Jehovah God is giving those in need to become commonplace to us.
We must stay in awe of our God and Father.
Now, you remember the first Scripture we read in Ecclesiastes, it says that in addition to fearing the true God, we're told to keep His commandments.
So it would be good to ask ourselves this question, what commandment of Jehovah God do I have difficulty keeping?
Is it a commandment that involves my self-control, my zeal, my humility, or perhaps my honesty?
If so, then we should give immediate attention to improving the spiritual person that we are, so that keeping God's commandments will become as easy as being in awe about what Jehovah is doing.
Brothers and sisters, we stand at the threshold of the promised new world.
May we heed the words here in Hebrews, chapter 12 and verse 28, by not only developing, but keeping a relationship with Jehovah God.
When it says Hebrews 11, Hebrews 12, 28, therefore seeing that we are to receive a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us continue to receive undeserved kindness through which we may acceptably offer God's sacred service with godly fear and awe.